so he's sniffing around all the time
getting used to the environment listen
never a dull moment they're always very
active their metabolism is it very high
no such thing really as a fat Wolverine
and they don't hibernate like a bear so
they just keep going all winter that's
right
they don't have much time it's all about
survival you know and mother nature
doesn't give an animal like this a lot
of margin for error as scavengers most
of the Wolverines diet is dead animals
creatures that have perished in these
extreme conditions and to find their
food Wolverines take advantage of one of
nature's most destructive forces
avalanches as snow thunders down the
mountainside mammals are often buried
beneath
it's thought Wolverines can sniff out
frozen carcasses even deep beneath the
snow to test this out
Helen buries some frozen meat deep in
the snow she'll return in a few hours
with Jasper to see if he can find it
just using his sense of smell before
that she's got a demonstration to show
how our noses and the Wolverines work it
involves an orange
when I sniff the orange it's really
strong this one is that the percent
molecules from the orange are going up
my nose and they're going up to the top
here and there's a structure up there
that's called the epithelial membrane
and that is where the odor detectors are
it's thought smell works like a
lock-and-key
the scent molecule is the key and will
only fit certain locks the odor
detectors we have 400 different types of
locks but scent molecules can hit many
combinations of these receptors so we
can identify thousands of different
smells most mammals detect scent in the
same way but for Wolverines it's all
about sensitivity detecting the tiniest
traces of scent even deep under the snow
so let's see how Jasper gets on finding
the buried meat they start several
hundred meters away and let Jasper
choose the course he's smelling things
right now Helen and it's not only what's
on the snow it's the air drifting past
that he's smelling
he picks up a scent quickly but is it
the right one
Oh having a better sniff here
it definitely knows there's something
here
he's on to some sent there for sure his
big paws are pretty efficient aren't
there yes yes he looks like nothing with
guessing his ways and he's shifting a
loss of snow yeah oh there we go
he's got it he's got it he found it